Refactor "Specifying a route's model" to be agnostic of data library choice (#708)
ember-learn/guides-source: guides/release/routing/specifying-a-routes-model.md

});
```

When a user first visits the `/favorite-posts` route, the `model` hook in `app/routes/favorite-posts.js` will automatically run.
In Ember, functions that automatically run during rendering or setup are commonly referred to as "hooks". 
Here's an example of a model hook in use within a route:

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/favorite-posts.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';

export default Route.extend({
  model() {
    console.log('The model hook just ran!')
    // write code to return a Promise or some static data
  }
});
```

`model` hooks have some special powers:

1. When you return data from this model, it becomes automatically available in the route's `.hbs` file as `this.model`

> 2. A `model` hook can return either a JavaScript [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Using_promises), or static sample data, like a string, object, or array

Reviewer: I agree with @mike-north . Perhaps this could be restated as:
"A model hook can return just about any type of data, like a string, object, or array, but most the most common pattern is to return a Javascript Promise."

3. If you return a Promise from the model hook, your route will wait for the Promise to resolve before it renders the template

> 4. `model` hooks work great with

Author: This is a good point, together with @mike-north's below. Revised to

"4. Since the `model` hook is Promise-aware, it great for making API requests (using tools like [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)) and returning the results. "

[Ember Data](../../models/),
[`ember-ajax`](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-ajax),

> or a JavaScript data fetching library of your choice

Reviewer 2: In the spirit of keeping things as simple as possible, I think we may be able to eliminate this point as well.

If there's a feeling that we should point that this works well with data fetching tools, we may want to consider reaching for the simplest and most universal (to those unfamiliar with Ember) examples that will do the job 
(i.e., [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API), or potentially AJAX)

Talking about core browser APIs instead of these libraries is a big help at reducing the feeling that we're introducing too much complexity too early

Author: Agreed, revised

5. When you load data in the `model` hook, you can take advantage of other niceties that Ember provides, like 
[automatic route transitions](/preventing-and-retrying-transitions)
after the data is returned,

> [error handling](/loading-and-error-substates),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[loading screens, error handling](/loading-and-error-substates),
```

and more

> 6. An optional feature of routes is the ability to show a [`loading` template](/loading-and-error-substates) while the app is waiting for the `model` hook to resolve

Reviewer 2: I think you can combine this with the point above

> 7. The `model` hook can be automatically re-run under certain conditions, described later in this topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. The `model` hook may automatically re-run in certain situations, as you'll read about below.
```

## Using the `model` hook

> To start, here's an example of returning static sample data from the `model` hook. This is helpful while you are doing the initial development of a new route:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start, here's an example of returning a simple array from the `model` hook. Even if we eventually plan to fetch this data over a network, starting with something simple makes initial development of a new route quick and easy.
```

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/favorite-posts.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';

export default Route.extend({
  model() {
    return [
      { title: 'Ember Roadmap' },
      { title: 'Accessibility in Ember' },
      { title: 'EmberConf Recap' }
    ]
  }
});
```

Now that data can be used in the `favorite-posts`  template:

```handlebars {data-filename=app/templates/favorite-posts.hbs}
{{#each this.model as |post|}}
  <div>
    {{post.title}}
  </div>
{{/each}}
```

> Let's compare with examples that have outgoing, asynchronous requests to the back end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's compare with examples that make asynchronous HTTP requests to a server somewhere.
```

This next example uses Ember Data's `findAll` method, which returns a Promise, and resolves with an array of [Ember Data records](../../models/). Ember Data is a powerful (but optional) library included by default in new Ember apps. Note that Ember Data also has a feature called a `Model`, but it's a separate concept from a route's `model` hook.

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/favorite-posts.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';

export default Route.extend({
  model() {
    return this.store.findAll('posts');
  }
});
```

Now let's look at [`ember-ajax`](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-ajax), an different data-fetching library that you could install in your app.

> It's a convenient wrapper around `jQuery.ajax`, a popular general JavaScript library. Like Ember Data, it returns data from within a Promise:

Reviewer 2: +1000 for eliminating `ember-ajax` from the guides (and blueprints), and either using `ember-fetch` or `fetch`. Let's show readers how simple Ember can be.

> It's a convenient wrapper around `jQuery.ajax`, a popular general JavaScript library. Like Ember Data, it returns data from within a Promise:

Author: Replaced with ember-fetch.

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/favorite-posts.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';
import { inject as service } from `@ember/service`

export default Route.extend({

>   ajax: Ember.inject.service(),

Reviewer: ```javascript
ajax: service(),
```

  model(params) {
    return this.get('ajax').request('https://some-api-endpoint.com/posts', {
      method: 'GET'
    });
  }
});
```

Lastly, you could hand-write a promise that you return from the model hook:

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/favorite-posts.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';

export default Route.extend({
  model() {

>     return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {

Reviewer 2: Aren't we teaching readers about promises in general at this point, and not about Ember? Can we get away with eliminating this example?

>     return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {

Author: Mike raised a good point. I'm removing this example altogether. I want to avoid introducing RSVP.

      // get some data
      resolve( /* data goes here */);
    })
  }
});
```

Just like in the static data example, the results of an asynchronous request in the `model` hook can be used in the template:

```handlebars {data-filename=app/templates/favorite-posts.hbs}
{{#each this.model as |post|}}
  <div>
    {{post.title}}
  </div>
{{/each}}
```

> Behind the scenes, what is happening is that the route's controller receives the results of the model hook, and makes those results available to the template. Your app may not have a controller file for the route, but the behavior is the same regardless.

Reviewer 2: or possibly http://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/Route/methods/model?anchor=setupController

## Multiple Models

What should you do if you need the `model` to return the results of multiple API requests?

Multiple models can be returned through an
[RSVP.hash](https://www.emberjs.com/api/ember/release/classes/rsvp/methods/hash?anchor=hash).

> The `RSVP.hash` method takes an object with promises or values as properties as an argument, and returns a single promise.

Reviewer 3: I think this might be a typo: " as properties as an argument"? I don't quite understand what this sentence means... 

Based on the [API docs](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/rsvp/methods/hash?anchor=hash), it sounds like the `hash` method takes an object (which can contain multiple promises), and returns a promise. The returned promise will resolve when all the promises listed IN the object are resolved, or rejected if ANY of them are rejected.

With the code example below, it may be helpful to show in comments what the hash will resolve to? Does `songs` resolves to an array of song records?

Author: I reworded this, based on the API docs phrasing.

When a user first visits the `/favorite-posts` route, the `model` hook in `app/routes/favorite-posts.js` will automatically run.
Here's an example of a model hook in use within a route:

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/favorite-posts.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';

export default Route.extend({
  model() {
    console.log('The model hook just ran!')
    return "Hello Ember!";
  }
});
```

`model` hooks have some special powers:

1. When you return data from this model, it becomes automatically available in the route's `.hbs` file as `this.model`
2. A `model` hook can return just about any type of data, like a string, object, or array, but the most common pattern is to return a JavaScript [Promise](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Using_promises)
3. If you return a Promise from the model hook, your route will wait for the Promise to resolve before it renders the template
4. Since the `model` hook is Promise-aware, it great for making API requests (using tools like [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API)) and returning the results. 

> 5. When use the `model` hook to load data, you can take advantage of other niceties that Ember provides, like 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. When using the `model` hook to load data, you can take advantage of other niceties that Ember provides, like 
```

> [automatic route transitions](/preventing-and-retrying-transitions)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[automatic route transitions](./preventing-and-retrying-transitions/)
```

Reviewer 4: I'm surprised this passed the link checker 🤔

after the data is returned,

> [loading screens, error handling](/loading-and-error-substates),

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[loading screens, error handling](./loading-and-error-substates/),
```

### Fetch example

First, here's an example using a core browser API called [`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API), which returns a Promise.
Install [`ember-fetch`](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-fetch) with the command `ember install ember-fetch`, if it is not already in the app's `package.json`.

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/favorite-posts.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';
import fetch from 'fetch';

export default Route.extend({
  model() {
    return fetch('/my-cool-end-point.json').then(function(response) {
      return response.json();
    });
  }
});
```

Older browsers may not have `fetch`, but the `ember-fetch` library includes a polyfill, so we don't have to worry about backwards compatibility!

### Ember Data example

Ember Data is a powerful (but optional) library included by default in new Ember apps. 
In the next example, we will use Ember Data's [`findAll`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/release/classes/DS.Store/methods/findAll?anchor=findAll) method, which returns a Promise, and resolves with an array of [Ember Data records](../../models/). 

> _Note that Ember Data also has a feature called a [`Model`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/release/classes/DS.Model), but it's a separate concept from a route's [`model`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/Route/methods/model?anchor=model) hook._

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
_Note that Ember Data also has a feature called a [`Model`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember-data/release/classes/DS.Model), but it's a separate concept from a route's [`model()`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/Route/methods/model?anchor=model) hook._
```
I find it's easier to explain that it's a hook when you show that it's a function 👍 (this is a super optional suggestion)

Author: Yeah, I think we have plenty of model hook examples on this page, but it would make a good blog article or FAQ

</ul>
```

## Dynamic Models

In the examples above, we showed a route that will always return the same data, a collection of favorite posts. Even when the user leaves and re-enters the `/posts` route, they will see the same thing.
But what if you need to request different data after user interaction?
What if a specific post should load based on the URL that the user visited, like `posts/42`?
In Ember, this can be accomplished by defining routes with [dynamic

> segments](../defining-your-routes/#toc_dynamic-segments), or by using [query parameters](/query-params), and then using the dynamic data to make requests.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
segments](../defining-your-routes/#toc_dynamic-segments), or by using [query parameters](./query-params), and then using the dynamic data to make requests.
```

There are two ways to link to a dynamic segment from an `.hbs` template using the
[link-to](../../templates/links/)
helper.
Depending on which approach you use, it will affect whether that route's `model` hook is run.
To learn how to link to a dynamic segment from within the JavaScript file, see the API documentation on
[`transitionTo`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/RouterService/methods/transitionTo?anchor=transitionTo)
instead.

When you provide a string or number to the `link-to`, the dynamic segment's `model` hook will run when the app transitions to the new route.
In this example, `photo.id` might have an id of `4`:

```handlebars
{{#each model as |photo|}}
  {{#link-to "photo" photo.id}}
    link text to display
  {{/link-to}}
{{/each}}
```

However, if you provide the entire model context, the model hook for that URL segment will _not_ be run.
For this reason, many Ember developers choose to pass only ids to `{{link-to}}` so that the behavior is consistent.

Here's what it looks like to pass the entire `photo` record:

```handlebars
{{#each model as |photo|}}
  {{#link-to "photo" photo}}
    link text to display
  {{/link-to}}
{{/each}}
```

> If you decide to pass the entire model, be sure to cover this behavior in your acceptance tests.

Reviewer 4: should we link to the testing section of the guides here?

Author: yes, added

> If a route you are trying to link to has multiple dynamic segments, like `/photos/4/comments/18`, be sure to specify all the necessary information for each segment:

Reviewer 4: so this isn't 100% true 🤔 and to be honest I don't know how you would teach the alternative because it's quite a weird behaviour.

So first of all this is true if you're anywhere in the app **not** under the `photos` route. But if you're on `/photos/4` you can link to 

```handlebars
{{#link-to "photos.photo.comments.comment" 18}}
  link text to display
{{/link-to}}
```

and it will keep you within the first dynamic segment and use 18 for the second 🙈 kinda strange but c'est la vie 🤷‍♂

Author: In the interest of teaching the happy path in the Guides, I think we should keep it as-is.

```handlebars
{{#link-to "photos.photo.comments.comment" 4 18}}
  link text to display
{{/link-to}}
```

Routes without dynamic segments will always execute the model hook.

## Reusing Route Context

Sometimes you need to fetch a model, but your route doesn't have the parameters, because it's
a child route and the route directly above or a few levels above has the parameters that your route
needs.
You might run into this if you have a URL like `/photos/4/comments/18`, and when you're in the comments route, you need a photo ID.

> In this scenario, you can use the `paramsFor` method to get the parameters of a parent route.

Reviewer 4: I feel like we should use album_id **and** comment_id in this example to make it more realistic 🤔 also aren't you saying that we're in the comments route? shouldn't the file name for this be `app/routes/photo/comment.js` or something?

Reviewer 4: and to that point... if the code examples are talking about albums and songs shouldn't our in-prose example also be using the same model types?

Author: I agree, however I would like to address this in a future PR. This discrepancy is present in the current guides: https://guides.emberjs.com/release/routing/specifying-a-routes-model/

> If you use [Ember Data](../../models/) and you are building an `RSVP.hash` with the model's relationship, consider instead properly setting up your [relationships](../../models/relationships/) and letting Ember Data take care of loading them.

Reviewer 3: If the goal is to focus on the `model` hook, maybe we can remove this sentence?  As a reader, I feel the need to understand how to use `RSVP.hash` with Ember Data after reading this. It also introduce questions about how Ember Data works, and what you mean by building a hash with "the model's relationship" -- even though there have been no mention of model relationship so far in this guide...  I assume that refers to things like `belongs to`  and `have many` ?

Author: agreed, removed

> ## Dynamic Models

Author: I removed my new example and instead referenced the example from the previous page. I think you are right about colliding ids.

In the examples above, we showed a route that will always return the same data, a collection of favorite posts. Even when the user leaves and re-enters the `/favorite-posts` route, they will see the same thing.
But what if you need to request different data after user interaction?
What if a specific post should load based on the URL that the user visited, or a selection that was made?
In Ember, this is accomplished by defining routes with [dynamic
segments](../defining-your-routes/#toc_dynamic-segments), or by using [query parameters](/query-params).
This section will focus on dynamic segments, sometimes also referred to as "dynamic models or routes."

### What does a dynamic segment look like?

Here's what it would look like in the URL if a route has a dynamic segment: `http://localhost:4200/posts/42`. The number `42` is the "dynamic" part.

> A user can follow a link taking them to `http://localhost:4200/posts/3` and see post number 3 instead.

Author: I removed this section because it was redundant with the previous page

> What's important here is that the data that should be displayed is tied to the url.

Author: I removed this section because it was redundant with the previous page

When you are doing routing well, a user could refresh the page, or visit a bookmarked page, and they would see the right data.

URLs are one of the main superpowers of browser-based apps, and your app should take advantage of them.

### Creating a dynamic segment

A dynamic segment can be created using the Ember CLI:

```bash
ember generate route photo --path "photos/:id"
```

This command will create a `.js` file, an `.hbs` file, and add a route in `router.js`:

```javascript {data-filename=app/router.js}
Router.map(function() {

>   this.route('photo', { path: '/photos/:id' });

Author: I removed this section because it is redundant with the previous page

});
```

Whatever shows up in the URL at the `:id`, the dynamic segment, will be available in the params for the route's `model` hook.

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/photo.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';

export default Route.extend({
  model(params) {
    console.log('This came from the URL: ', params.id)
  }
});
```

The `:id` name here isn't something special.
Whatever name you give the dynamic segment, that's the key it will show up as in the `model` parameters.

> You could call it `:puppies` in `router.js` if you wanted to, and access it in the model as `params.puppies`.

Author: I'm not sure about the link-to magic, but I can remove it anyway for conciseness.

In the `model` hook for routes with dynamic segments, it's your job to
use the ID (something like `47` or `post-slug`) when you make a data request.

For example, if your app uses Ember Data to make API requests, you could include the ID in a `findRecord`:

```javascript {data-filename=app/routes/photo.js}
import Route from '@ember/routing/route';

export default Route.extend({
  model(params) {
    this.store.findRecord('photo', params.id)
  }

> });

Reviewer 3: Referring to previous comments on line 112. I had suggested this order of examples (from broad to most specific):

- General example 
- Web API
- Ember-specific examples (e.g. ember-data / ember-ajax etc)

Perhaps use a general example here if possible?

> });

Author: Removed this example altogether

```

> ### Linking to a dynamic segment

Reviewer 5: Thank you **SO MUCH** for documenting this, it's been a snag that keeps hitting folks ...

There are two ways to link to a dynamic segment from an `.hbs` template using the
[link-to](../../templates/links/)
helper.

> Depending on which approach you use, it will affect whether that route's model hook is run.

Reviewer 3: Depending on which approach you use, it will affect whether that route's `model` hook is run.

To learn how to link to a dynamic segment from within the JavaScript file, see the API documentation on

> [`transitionTo`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/3.8/classes/RouterService/methods/transitionTo?anchor=transitionTo)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`transitionTo`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/RouterService/methods/transitionTo?anchor=transitionTo)
```

instead.

> When you provide a string or number to the `link-to`, the dynamic segment's model hook will run when the app transitions to the new route.

Reviewer 3: the dynamic segment's `model` hook will run when the app

> In this example, `photo.id` might have a value that's an ID like `4`:

Reviewer 3: In this example, `photo.id` might have a value of `4`:

```handlebars
{{#each model as |photo|}}
  {{#link-to "photo" photo.id}}
    link text to display
  {{/link-to}}
{{/each}}
```

> However, if you provide the entire model context, the model hook for that URL segment will _not_ be run. In this example, we are passing the entire `photo` record:

Reviewer 2: I encourage folks to typically pass ids instead of models so that they get consistent behavior regardless of whether they enter the application through a particular route, or transition to it from within the app.

I feel like if I were to teach that it's ok to do either of these things, I'd also have to encourage that each route be involved in acceptance tests _both_ by being visited directly, _and_ by being transitioned to while skipping the model hook.

```handlebars
{{#each model as |photo|}}
  {{#link-to "photo" photo}}
    link text to display
  {{/link-to}}
{{/each}}
```

> If a route you are trying to link to has multiple dynamic segments, be sure to specify all the necessary information for each segment. For example, a route like `/photos/4/comments/18` would need:

Reviewer 2: This _might_ be a good place to point out that multiple dynamic segments with the same name are all filled in with the same value. 

i.e., `/photos/:id/comments/:id` could never be `/photos/4/comments/18` since there is exactly one segment in the URL pattern, which is repeated twice

Author: This is covered in the previous page of the guides.

```handlebars
{{#link-to "photos.photo.comments.comment" 4 18}}
  link text to display
{{/link-to}}
```

Routes without dynamic segments will always execute the model hook.

> 

Reviewer 2: An additional common thing that trolls people, which I didn't see is mention of, the default route behavior for dynamic segments like formatted like `:book_id`.

For a route with no model hook implemented (even a route with no `.js` file at all), the default implementation of `model()` will be equivalent to

```js
model(params) {
 return this.store.find('book', params.book_id);
}
```

Author: Wait, what? It automatically provides a model hook that retrieves data? 😱

Reviewer 4: yea this is something that I've known about for a long time but it's never been documented (that I know of) so it is completely alien to me 🙈 I have never relied on it once since forever

Author: Added a note on this. Thanks for the info!

## Reusing Route Context

Sometimes you need to fetch a model, but your route doesn't have the parameters, because it's
a child route and the route directly above or a few levels above has the parameters that your route
needs.

> You might run into this if you have a URL like `/photos/4/comments/18`, and when you're in the comments route, you need a photo ID.

Reviewer 3: when you're in the comments route, you need a photo `:id`

In this example, you are using the convention of `mode_id` instead of just plain `:id` ( i.e. `album_id`), this might be confusing for readers as the previous examples above are using `:id`?

Since the code example uses `song` and `album`, change the URL example to match that instead (e.g. `/albums/4/asongs/18`)

----
The section below was not edited so I can't add comments inline:

Firstly, talking to @mike-north he said that trying to get query params from the parents' route is an advanced concept, and an uncommon thing to do.  If we want to include the most important 20% of content that people need 80% of the time, this section does not pass the 80/20 rule. This looks like an an edge case and have "code smell".

Specific comments on why this section is confusing:

- [ ] Line 305 - 306:
> This is guaranteed to work because the parent route is loaded. But if you tried to do `paramsFor` on a sibling route, you wouldn't have the results you expected.

Q1:  Why do we have a guarantee with the parent route? Simply stating a guarantee is in one place but not the other doesn't help me form a mental model.
Q2: Why is using this method with a sibling route undesirable?

- [ ] Line 308
> This is a great way to use the parent context to load something that you want.
Q: What does the generic term "something that you want" mean?
In the example of `song` loading something from `album`, are we referring to data on the `album` e.g. album name? 

- [ ] Line 309 - 311
> Using `paramsFor` will also give you the query params defined on that route's controller.
This method could also be used to look up the current route's parameters from an action
or another method on the route, and in that case we have a shortcut: `this.paramsFor(this.routeName)`.

😩I have no idea what this paragraph means. 

- [ ] Line 313
> In our case, the parent route had already loaded its songs, so we would be writing unnecessary fetching logic.

There has been no explanation on the parent route and how it loads data so far, so how did we arrive at this conclusion that `songs` are already loaded?

- [ ] Line 329
> In the case above, the parent route looked something like this
Q1: Again, I'm still confused about what this example is
Q2: Why do we need to use `RSVP.hash` in the parent route?

I think either this entire section needs to be eliminated, or it need to be reviewed and updated to a sensible order:
- Start explaining from the "child route" (e.g. `song`) and move upwards (e.g. `album)
- Start explaining from the parent route and move downwards to child route

Author: I agree on a lot of these points. I didn't touch this section because it was super messy :P I would like to break this out into a new Issue/PR

```

And calling `modelFor` returned the result of the `model` hook.

## Debugging models

If you are having trouble getting a model's data to show up in the template, here are some tips:

- Use the [`{{debugger}}`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/Ember.Templates.helpers/methods/debugger?anchor=debugger) or [`{{log}}`](https://api.emberjs.com/ember/release/classes/Ember.Templates.helpers/methods/debugger?anchor=log) helper to inspect the `{{model}}` from the template
- return hard-coded sample data as a test to see if the problem is really in the model hook, or elsewhere down the line
- study JavaScript Promises in general, to make sure you are returning data from the Promise correctly
- make sure your `model` hook has a `return` statement

> - check to see whether the data returned from a `model` hook is an object, array, or JavaScript Primitive. For example, if the result of `model` is an array, using `{{this.model}}` in the template won't work. You will need to iterate over the array with an `{{#each}}` helper. If the result is an object, you need to access the individual attribute like `{{this.model.title}}` to render it in the template.

Reviewer 4: should we link `{{#each}}` to the actual each helper?

Author: yes, done

```

And calling `modelFor` returned the result of the `model` hook.

## Debugging models

If you are having trouble getting a model's data to show up in the template, here are some tips:

> - return static, sample data as a test to see if the problem is really in the model hook, or elsewhere down the line

Reviewer 3: Referring to previous comments, can we change the phrase  _"static, sample data"_ to hard-coded data or something that's equally common phrased?

- study JavaScript Promises in general, to make sure you are returning data from the Promise correctly

> - make sure your `model` hook has a `return`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- make sure your `model` hook has a `return` statement
```

> - check to see whether the data returned from a `model` hook is an object, array, or JavaScript Primitive. For example, if the results of `model` are an array, using `{{this.model}}` in the template won't work. You will need to iterate over the results with an `{{#each}}` helper. If the results of `model` are a single object, you need to access the individual attributes like `{{this.model.title}}` to see anything rendered

Reviewer 3: Mix of singular and plural in this sentence. The `model` hook returns one result, and it can be an object / array / string etc.  Suggested changes:

For example, if the **result** of `model` is an array, using `{{this.model}}` in the template won't work. You will need to iterate over the **array** with an `{{#each}}` helper. If the result **is an object**, you need to access the individual **attribute** like `{{this.model.title}}` to **render it in the template.**

- use your browser's development tools to examine the outgoing and incoming API responses and see if they match what your code expects

> - if you are using Ember Data, use the [Ember Inspector](../../ember-inspector/) browser plugin to see if the records made it into the store

Reviewer 5: Do we want to mention the `{{debugger}}` and ``{{log this.model}}` helpers here too?

Reviewer 2: `{{debugger}}` is the very first thing I try in this situation.

Author: I added debugger and log as the first suggestion

> - if you are using Ember Data, use the [Ember Inspector](../../ember-inspector/) browser plugin to see if the records made it into the store

Reviewer 2: If you're going to mention the ember inspector, the "model" column in the "View tree" tab would be the "go-to" place for this. Only if I saw that the model was null/undefined/empty would I want to check out loaded e-d records

 
<img width="942" alt="Screen Shot 2019-03-30 at 11 48 17 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/558005/55285750-604d3700-5346-11e9-8e29-294e0a28c550.png">

Author: This is interesting, I always ignored that column as gibberish.
